hey there folks and welcome back for a
little bit of news I normally don't do
this sort of thing but I feel it's sort
of applicable to some of the games that
we play and on this channel you know we
play space engineers star citizen stuff
like that and the game that is kind of
applicable to is space engineers and
maybe even medieval engineers we're not
entirely sure at this point but as you
know probably know this past weekend
steam has unveiled paid mods which is
the idea of paid mods i can understand
some people not liking the idea of
paying for them but i understand that
the modders maybe they deserve a little
bit of money but there are so many
issues with the implementation of this
paid mod thing that's going on on steam
it's just a terrible idea and we're
going to go over some of those reasons
but why is this applicable to us and
space engineers and medieval engineers
well that's because one of the
developers just tweeted today if you're
watching this today I'm releasing it
that it is very likely that we will
announce something about paid mods on
space engineers and that's not a good
thing and I'll go over some of the
reasons it's not a very good thing well
if you're a modern you want to make some
money I can understand wanting to do
that but valve and the game that it's
Ford takes 75% of the revenue earned
from your mod so say you have a 99-cent
mod that means that you're probably
going to get 24 sense of it that's
appallingly low and it should be
reversed it should be the Mater should
be the one getting that 75 cents and the
developer and Val maybe they should get
the smaller portion that's just the tip
of the iceberg on the problems that are
with the new modding system in steam on
top of that there's no system in place
to stop people from posting stolen mods
so somebody could take a mod that you
made put it on the workshop for free
somebody could take that mod and put it
back on the workshop as a paid mod
and that's essentially stealing your
content in making money off of it and
you could have your mod removed as a
result of it and there's no no system in
place to stop this from happening so
there's going to be a very toxic
community in the modding community right
now it's an awesome community where
everybody just does stuff for free you
can get all sorts of cool stuff no
issues whatsoever but with this paid mod
it's all sorts of legal gray areas start
to pop up and there's also no system in
place to limit low-effort mods and
charge exorbitant amounts of money for
it and granted there is a 24 hour refund
period but what if the mod works fine
for the first 24 hours and the game gets
updated and the mod stops working I mean
there's no way to prevent something like
that from happening and there's no way
to encourage or make the maker of the
mod make it so that it continues working
with newer versions of the game and if
you're paying for a product you should
feel that it should work after the game
gets updated but you can't necessarily
ensure that and also modders lose their
rights to the mods after it gets
uploaded it actually becomes the
property of the game developer and of
steam so that's not really something
that matters I'm sure they don't want to
do that because they want to think of it
as their baby they made it and they're
not going to have legal rights to it
anymore and I just don't think that
that's right and I think that space
engineers devs haven't announced that
they're going to do it for sure however
they're looking into doing it so I i
encourage you to tell them that you
don't want to have to pay for mods and
it's going to be toxic for the community
this game was built on matters that
loved the game they were passionate for
the game and it made it so much fun in
fact I use a number of mods in my
multiplayer world at while multiplayers
exploration mode and all sorts of things
it's just wood it's not good and I
encourage you guys to tell them that so
hopefully
that they don't put paid mods in the
game I mean I can understand modders
deserve to get paid a little bit maybe
put in a donation button or something
like that that is completely acceptable
and I would encourage people to donate
to mods but right now having to pay for
mods I don't think that that's the
correct way to go especially with the
implementation system that Valve put out
there it's just not working they'll have
to do a lot of work to make paid mods
quality controlled legally black and
white and beneficial to the modders and
the community right now it's pretty much
only beneficial to the game developer of
the game that's being modded and to
valve so i encourage you to tweet this
guy back and tell him that this isn't
something that we should be doing so
thank you folks for watching this little
rant of an episode next episode we'll be
back with you know the normal thing so
thank you folks for watching this
hopefully I won't have to make episodes
like this in the future and i'll see you
guys next time